Approch based on paper
--------------------------
[1] A. S and S. Narayan,
"Detection of GAN-manipulated Medical Images through Deep LearningTechniques,
" 2024 International Conference on Advances in Modern Age Technologies for Health and Engineering Science (AMATHE), Shivamogga, India, 2024, pp.1-6, doi: 10.1109/AMATHE61652.2024.10582065.


Nice — I’ll give you a complete, working implementation you can run locally that follows the paper’s pipeline: 

LBP preprocessing → U-Net feature extractor → SVM classifier.

The code is ready to plug into real datasets (e.g., LIDC-IDRI and your GAN-generated CTs), and also includes a small synthetic-data example 
so you can sanity-check the pipeline right away.

I’ll provide:

A single Python script (PyTorch + scikit-learn) with everything: data handling, LBP, U-Net, training loop, feature extraction, SVM training, 
evaluation, and save/load.

Instructions for dependencies and how to adapt to real datasets.

Notes & tips for reproducing results close to the paper.


What this implements
--------------------

LBP (Local Binary Patterns) preprocessing (using skimage) to extract texture maps from input images.

A U-Net encoder/decoder (PyTorch) adapted so we can extract a feature vector (from encoder bottleneck or global pooled decoder features).

A pipeline that concatenates LBP features + U-Net embeddings, then trains an SVM (scikit-learn) to classify real vs GAN-manipulated images.

Save/restore model & a small synthetic dataset trainer for immediate testing.

-------
Install these (tested on Linux/macOS/Windows; Python 3.9+ recommended):

python -m pip install torch torchvision scikit-learn scikit-image numpy tqdm pillow


(If you want GPU support, install the correct torch wheel from https://pytorch.org.)

---------
How to adapt this to the paper’s datasets (LIDC-IDRI & CT-GAN)

Dataset loader

Replace SyntheticCTDataset with a Dataset that reads real CT volumes or 2D PNG/JPEG slices. For 3D volumes, either (a) treat 2D slices independently (typical first step), or (b) extend U-Net to 3D (use nn.Conv3d & 3D pooling).

Example: read DICOM/NRRD/PNG slices into grayscale arrays with pydicom or SimpleITK. Then normalize per-scan (windowing for CT Hounsfield Units may be required).

LBP

Keep LBP on 2D slices. For 3D you can compute LBP on each slice or use 3D texture descriptors.

The script uses skimage.feature.local_binary_pattern. For CT data, pick P and R (neighbors and radius) appropriate to image resolution.

U-Net details

The paper uses a U-Net. If you want closer fidelity, use full encoder+decoder with skip connections and optionally pretraining or deeper base channels (32/64/128). For 3D CT, use 3D U-Net.

Feature extraction

In this script, we use the encoder’s global pooled vector as the embedding and simple summary stats of the LBP map (mean/std). The paper likely used more careful concatenation/processing (e.g., flatten or pooled LBP histograms). You can:

Compute histogram of LBP patterns and concatenate to embedding.

Or concatenate spatial bottleneck features followed by PCA to reduce dims before SVM.

SVM training

Use class_weight='balanced' if classes are imbalanced. Tune kernel (RBF, linear) and C using cross-validation. The paper used an SVM — hyperparams matter.

Evaluation metrics

Report accuracy, precision, recall, F1, and AUC. For medical applications, pay special attention to recall for manipulated images (sensitivity).

Practical tips

Use data augmentation (rotations, flips, small elastic transforms) carefully — avoid changing clinical features that GANs might manipulate.

If using GAN-generated images for training/fine-tuning, ensure variety in GAN types (StyleGAN variants, CT-GANs, etc.) to improve generalization.

For deployment, consider per-patient aggregation (i.e., majority vote across slices) to reduce false positives/negatives.

---------
Notes about reproducibility & ethics

When using clinical datasets (LIDC-IDRI or institutional CTs), ensure IRB / data access approvals and patient privacy protection. Do not share identifiable patient data.

The supplied synthetic dataset is only for functional validation of the pipeline. Use robust cross-validation and external test sets to estimate real-world performance.

If you want next

I can:

Convert the current script to a full 3D U-Net (if you have volumetric CT files).

Provide a ready Dataset class for LIDC-IDRI (DICOM handling & HU windowing).

Add PCA, t-SNE visualization of embeddings and an evaluation notebook.

Provide a Colab-ready notebook and smaller demo dataset so you can run on GPU quickly.

Tell me which of the above you want and I’ll produce it (code + step-by-step instructions).


